Not only have I built hundreds of AI
agents myself, I've seen other people
build thousands for every use case under
the sun. And those who are the most
successful are the ones who don't over
complicated. And in this video, I want
to show you how that can be you as well.
Cuz here's the thing, and I see this all
of the time. When people first think
about building their AI agents, their
perfectionism kicks in and they worry
about creating the perfect system
prompt, defining the perfect tools,
thinking about the LLM they want to use.
They consider the context and
observability and latency and security
and deployment. They get overwhelmed
with everything. And that might be you
as well. So, what I have to say to you
right now is take a deep breath. That is
why I'm here. Honestly, you can learn
90% of what you need to build AI agents
from just this video. And that, my
friend, is what I have for you in this
video. I want to cover each of the core
components of building agents like
system prompts, tools, security, and
context. And I want to break down what
you should focus on to build the first
90% of your agent. Basically, creating
that proof of concept. And then,
honestly, even more importantly, I want
to talk about what you shouldn't focus
on at first because otherwise, you're
over complicating it. the kinds of
things you will need to look into at
some point when you want to specialize
your agents and move to production. But
that's what my other content is for
right now. Whether you're new to
building agents or you just want to
build them faster, I want to help you
focus on the first 90% to make things
dead simple. Oh, and by the way, this
agent that you're looking at right here
is the mascot for the new Dynamis
Agentic coding course. So, if you want
to master building systems around AI
coding, check out the link in the
description. All right. So, the first
thing I want to cover with you is the
four core components of any AI agent,
which quick recap, an AI agent is any
large language model that is given the
ability to interact with the outside
world on your behalf through tools. And
so, it can do something like book a
meeting on your calendar, search the
internet for you. That's the first part
of agents is these tools. It's the
functions that we give it that it can
call upon to perform actions. And then
the brain for our AI agent is the large
language model. It processes our
requests and it decides based on the
instructions we give it which tools to
use. And speaking of those core
instructions, that is our agent program,
aka the system prompt. It's the highest
level set of instructions we give to any
AI agent at the start of any
conversation that instructs it on its
persona, goals, how to use tools. We'll
cover the different core components of
system prompts in a little bit. And then
last but not least, we have memory
systems. That's the context we have from
our conversations, both the short-term
and long-term memory. We'll talk about
this a bit more when we get into context
as well. And so, as we go through each
of these core components, I'm going to
move pretty quickly because I just want
to cover the basics with you, but I'll
also link to different videos on my
channel throughout this video if you
want to dive deeper into anything. And
when building an AI agent, it is really
simple to get started. And I'll show you
an example in code in just a bit here so
you can really see what I'm talking
about. So when you're building the very
core of your AI agent, it's really just
three steps. You need to pick a large
language model, write a basic system
prompt as the agent instructions, and
then add your first tool because you
need a tool otherwise it's really just a
regular large language model, not an
agent. And so for picking a large
language model, I would highly recommend
using a platform called Open Router
because it gives you access to pretty
much any large language model you could
possibly want. And so Claude Haiku 4.5
is the general one that I use just as
I'm prototyping my AI agents, but you
could use GPT 5 Mini. You could use an
open source model like DeepSeek, for
example. Like all of them are available
on this platform. And then when creating
your system prompt, you just want to
define your agents role and behavior.
And you can refine this over time as
well. just starting really simple and
then adding your first tool. Like you
can give it access to search the web.
You can give it the ability to perform
mathematical computations with a
calculator tool. Like literally whatever
it is, just start simple and then once
you have this foundation, that's when
you can build on more capabilities and
integrations. And I want to show you
more than just theory as well. Like
let's actually go and build an AI agent
right now so you can see practically how
dead simple it really is. And I'll have
a link to this repo in the description
as well if you want to dive into this
extremely basic agent that's covering
all of the components in this video,
even some things we'll talk about in a
bit like observability. So you can get
this up and running yourself, even use
this as a template for your first agent
if you want. And so I'm going to build
it from scratch with you right now, like
show you line by line how simple this
really is. It's going to be less than 50
lines in the end, just like I promised
in the slide. And so first I'm going to
import all of the Python dependencies.
I'm using Pantic AI since it's my
favorite AI agent framework, but it
really doesn't matter the one that you
use. The principles that I'm covering in
this video applies no matter how you're
building your agents, even if it's with
a tool like N8N because what I'm
focusing on here is just defining our
four core components. LLM, tools,
memory, and a system prompt. And so the
first thing I'm going to do is define
the large language model that I want to
leverage. And just like I talked about a
little bit ago, I'm using open router.
So right now I'm going to use cloud
haiku 4.5 as my model. But literally
just changing this line or just changing
my environment variable here. A single
line change. I can swap to any model I
want like Gemini or DeepSeek or OpenAI.
It's that easy. After I have my LLM
defined, now I define the agent itself
including the system prompt, the
highlevel instructions. And so I'm
importing this from a separate file.
I'll just show you a very very basic
example of a system prompt here and then
more on this in a little bit. The core
components that I generally include
including the persona goal tool
instructions, the output format like how
it communicates back to us and then also
any other miscellaneous instructions I
want to include. So I have this saved
here. Now this is a part of my agent
that I've defined. And so the next thing
that we need to add is a tool to really
turn it from an LLM or a chatbot into a
full-fledged agent. And the way that you
do that with most AI Asian frameworks is
you define a Python function like very
simply and then you add what is called a
decorator. This signals to paid AI that
this function right here I want to take
and attach to my agent as a capability
that it can now invoke. And so the agent
defines these parameters when it calls
the tool. So like in this case this is a
very basic tool to add two numbers
together because large language models
as token prediction machines actually
suck at math. interesting fact. And so
it defines these parameters and it
leverages this dock string as it's
called like this comment is included as
a part of the prompt to the LLM because
it defines when and how to leverage this
tool which in this case the
functionality is very basic just adding
two numbers together. But this could be
a tool to search the web based on a
query it defines create an event in our
calendar based on a time range and title
that it defines right like all those
things are parameters and then we
perform the functionality for the agent
based on that. That is the tool that we
got for the agent. And that is really
good. We've created our agent and added
the tools. The only thing we have to do
now is set up a way to interact with it.
So I'm going to create a very basic
command line interface here. We start
with empty conversation. This is where
we'll add memory, which is the fourth
component of agents. And so in an
infinite loop here, we're getting the
input from the user. Uh and we're
exiting the program if they say exit.
Otherwise, we are going to call the
agent. So it's very simply agent.run run
with the user's latest message and
passing in for short-term memory the
conversation history so it knows what we
said to each other up until this point
and then I'm going to add on to the
conversation history everything that we
just said and then print out the agents
latest response. Take a look at that.
And then even after we call our main
function here, we are still below 50
lines of code. It is that easy to define
our agents. And obviously there's so
many more things that we have to do to
really get our agent to the point where
it's production ready. But again, I just
want to focus on making it dead simple
for you right now. And I know that a lot
of this might be review for you if you
built agents in the past. But especially
if you have built a lot of AI agents
already, you're probably like me where a
lot of times you just overcomplicate
things cuz you know how much can go into
building agents. That's what I'm trying
to do is just draw you back to the
fundamentals because you need to keep
things simple when you're first creating
any agent really any software at all.
And so yeah, we can go into the terminal
now and interact with our agent. So I'm
going to run agent.py here. Everything
that we just built, I can say hello to
get a super simple response back here.
And then I can say for example, what is
and I'll just do a couple of bigger
numbers that I want to add together. And
so here it knows thanks to the tool
description that it should use the add
numbers tool that we gave it to produce
this sum. There we go. Take a look at
that. And I can even say did you use the
tool, right? And it should say yes. Like
it actually recognizes based on the
conversation history that it used the ad
numbers tool. Okay, perfect. So we got
this agent with conversation history. It
knows when to use this tool. And now at
this point we can start to expand the
tools that we give it. We can refine our
system prompt, play around with
different LLMs. and I want to talk about
that as well. Now, starting with large
language models, choosing your LLM, like
I was saying when I was building the
agent, Claude Haiku 4.5 is the one that
I recommend just a cheap and fast option
that's really good for building proof of
concepts when I don't want to spend a
lot of money on tokens as I'm iterating
on my agent initially. And then Claude
Sonnet 4.5 is generally the best
all-around right now. This might change
in literally a week and people have
different opinions. The main thing that
I want to communicate here is don't
actually worry about picking the perfect
LLM up front, especially when you're
using a platform like Open Router where
it makes it so easy to swap between
LLMs. Even if you're not using Open
Router, it still is really easy. And
then if you want a local model for
privacy reasons or you want to be 100%
free running on your hardware, then
Mistl 3.1 Smaller Quen 3 are the ones
that I recommend right now. And if you
haven't ever tried Open Router or a tool
like it that really just routes you
between the different LLM providers, I
would highly recommend trying one
because it makes it so easy to iterate
on the LLM for your agent, giving you
instant access to take a look at this.
We got Grock, Anthropic, Gemini, we've
got the GPT models, we've got uh Quen 3,
all the open- source ones. No matter
what you want to experiment with, you've
got it here. And so just use this as
your tool to iterate on the LM very
quickly and just not have to think about
it that much. And then for the system
prompt component, I promised I would
dive a little bit more into the
different categories that I have. So
that's what I want to talk about very
quickly. It can be especially easy to
overthink the system prompt because it's
just such a broad problem to solve of
like what should the top level
instruction set be for my agent? And so
I like to keep things simple by working
off of a template that I use for all of
my AI agents at least as a starting
point. I always have persona and goals,
tool instructions and examples, output
format, and miscellaneous instructions.
And what you shouldn't worry about at
this point is setting up elaborate
prompt evaluations or split testing your
system prompts. You can get into that
when you really want to refine your
agent instructions. But right now, just
keep it simple and refine at a high
level as you are manually testing your
agent. And if you want to see that
system prompt template in action, I've
got you covered. I'll have a link to
this in the description as well. It's a
real example of me filling out those
different sections, creating a system
prompt for a task management agent. So,
I have my persona defined here. I'm
defining the goals for the task
management agent. The tool instructions
like how I can use different tools
together to manage tasks in my platform.
The output format, just specifying ways
that I want it to communicate back to me
or things to avoid. Some examples. Now,
this applies more to more complex agents
and system prompts where you actually
want to kind of give an example of a
workflow of chaining different tools
together, so it doesn't really apply
here. And then the last thing is just
miscellaneous instructions. This is also
the place to go to add in extra
instructions to fix those little issues
you see with your agent that doesn't
necessarily fit into all the others. So,
a catchall to make sure that there's a
place to put anything as you're
experimenting with your agent and
refining your system prompt. And then as
far as tools go for your AI agents,
there's just a few things I want to
cover quickly to help you keep things
simple and focused. The first is that
you should keep your tools to under 10
for your AI agents, at least when
starting out. And you definitely want to
make sure that each tool's purpose is
very distinct. Because if your tools
have overlapping functionality or if you
have too many, then your large language
model starts to get overwhelmed with all
the possibilities of its capabilities
and it'll use the wrong tools. It will
forget to call tools. uh and it's just a
mess. Like definitely keep it to under
10. And then also MCP servers are a
great way to find preackaged sets of
tools you can bring into your an agent
when you're, you know, creating
something initially and you just want to
move very quickly. And so definitely
based on what you're building, you'll
probably be able to find an MTP server
that gives you some functionality right
out of the box for your agents. And then
the last thing I'll say is a lot of
people ask me, "What capabilities should
I focus on learning first when I'm
building agents?" and I want to give
them tools and rag is always the answer
that I have for them. Giving your AI
agent tools that allows it to search
your documents and knowledge base.
That's what retrieval augmented
generation is. And so really, it's
giving your agents the ability to ground
their responses in real data. And I
would say that probably over 80% of AI
agents running out in the wild right
now, no matter the industry or niche,
are using rag to some extent as part of
the capabilities for the agent. And then
continuing with our theme here, what not
to focus on when building tools is don't
worry about multi- aent systems or
complex tool orchestration through that
yet. When you have a system that starts
to have more than 10 tools, that is
generally when you start to split into
specialized sub aents and you have
routing between them. Those kinds of
systems are powerful and necessary for a
lot of applications, but definitely
overengineering when you're just getting
started creating your agent or a system.
Also, if you want to learn more about
rag and building that into your agents,
check out the video that I'll link to
right here. I cover that all of the time
on my channel because it is so
important. And so with that, moving on
to the next thing, we have our security
essentials because it is important to
think about security when you're
building any software upfront. But I
don't want you to over complicate it
yet, right? Like don't become a security
expert overnight. There are existing
tools out there to help us with
security. So we can still move quickly
as we're building our agent initially.
We'll definitely want to pay more
attention to security when we're going
into production. But at first there are
a couple of tools that I want to call
out here. And then just some general
principles to follow. Like for example,
don't hardcode your API keys, right?
Like you don't want to have your OpenAI
or anthropic API key just sitting there
right in your code or your end workflow
for example. You always want to store
that in a secure way through things like
environment variables. And then also
when we think about building AI agents
in particular, there's a lot of security
that we want to implement through what
are called guard rails, right? So
limiting what kind of information can
come into the large language model and
then also limiting the kinds of
responses that the agent can give and
having it like actually retry if it
produces any kind of response that isn't
acceptable for us. And there's a super
popular open source repository that I
lean on all the time to help with
guardrails and very creatively called
guardrails AI. And so it's a Python
framework because I always love building
my AI agents with Python that helps
build reliable AI applications by giving
you both the input and output guard
rails that I'm talking about. So
limiting what goes in and limiting what
the agent can produce. And they provide
a lot of different options for
guardrails. Like for example, one thing
that you want to avoid quite often is
inserting any kind of PII, personally
identifiable information into a prompt
to an LLM, especially when it's going
out to some model in the cloud like
anthropic or Gemini instead of a local
LLM. So limiting that kind of thing,
maybe detecting any vulgar language
that's outputed from an LLM because they
will do that sometimes. Like those are
just some examples of input and output
guard rails. And it is very easy to
install this as a Python package and
bring these guards right into your code
as you are interacting with your agents
like we saw earlier when I had that, you
know, simple command line tool to talk
to the agent. Like I could just add a
guard before or after that call to the
agent. So yeah, guardrails don't have to
be complicated. There are tools like
this, even completely open- source ones
like guardrails AI that make it very
easy. Okay, so we've talked about
guardrails and I gave you one example of
best practices for security in our
codebase. But what about the other
million different vulnerabilities we
have to account for in our codebase and
the dependencies we're bringing into our
project? We can't expect ourselves to
become a security expert overnight. And
so it's important to learn these things,
but also we can lean on existing tools
to help us with this vulnerability
detection. There are a lot of options
out there for this, but Sneak Studio is
one that I've been leaning on a lot
recently. And they also have an MCP
server within the studio to help us
handle vulnerability detection
automatically right within our coding
process. So like always, I'm trying to
focus on open- source solutions for this
video, but there's really no open-
source alternative to Sneak that I know
about. This platform is incredible. So
in the Sneak Studio, we can set up these
different projects and integrations. We
can have it analyze our codebase and
dependencies for vulnerabilities in our
GitHub repositories. They have a CLI. We
can do things locally. They have the MCP
server that I'm going to show you in a
little bit. I'll link to all this in the
description. But yeah, the MCP server in
particular is super cool to me because
we can have vulnerability detection
built right into our AI coding
workflows. Now, so take a look at this.
I have the Sneak MCP server connected
directly to my cloud code after I went
through the Sneak authentication process
in the CLI. And you can connect this to
literally any AI coding assistant or MCP
client. So now within cloud I could
build this into a full AI coding
workflow which is very cool. I'm going
to show you a simple demo right now.
I'll just say you know use the sneak MCP
to analyze my code and dependencies
for vulnerabilities.
And so it's able to leverage different
tools within the MCP server to check for
both right like it's a very robust
solution here. And so I'll let it go for
a little bit. I'll pause and come back
once it has run the vulnerability
detection. Okay, this is so cool. Take a
look at this. So, within my basic agent
repository, first it used the sneakc
server to analyze for any
vulnerabilities with my dependencies,
things like paidantic AI, for example.
And then it does a code scan. So, this
would also detect things like if I had
my environment variables hardcoded like
the example that I gave earlier. So, it
found three issues with my dependencies
and nothing with my code, which I'm very
proud of. I got no issues with my code.
And not only does it do the analysis,
but it gives me a summary and lists the
actions I can take to remedy things.
Like here are the uh just medium
severity vulnerabilities that I have
within a few of my dependencies. Nothing
in my code. And then it gives me
recommendations to fix fix things. And
so I can go and say yes action on this
now. And it's going to update my
requirements.ext fix these things. And I
could even run the sneak MCP server
again. And you can definitely see how
you'd build this kind of thing directly
into the validation layer of your AI
coding workflow. Very, very neat for any
AI agent or really any software you want
to build at all. Moving on, I want to
talk about memory. Now, managing the
tokens that we're passing into the LLM
calls for our agents. And this really is
a hot topic right now, especially with
all the rate limiting that people are
getting with AI coding assistants like
Claude Code. It really is important to
manage our context efficiently, only
giving to our agents the information it
actually needs and not completely
bloating our system prompts with
thousands of lines of instruction and
tools that it doesn't actually need.
That's what you want to avoid. And so,
just a couple of simple tips here going
along with our theme. The first one is
to keep your prompts very concise. both
your system prompts and then also the
tool descriptions that describe to your
agent when and how to use tools like I
showed in the code earlier. You don't
need to over complicate it. That's why I
have these templates for you like the
one for the system prompt, right? Like
you have your goal just a couple of
sentences, your persona just a couple of
sentences. Keep it very organized and
keeping it organized also helps you keep
it quite concise. You don't need to
overthink it. And so keeping your system
prompts to just a couple of hundred
lines at most is generally what I
recommend. Some solutions might need
more, but that's when I'd start to
question like could you really make that
more concise or split it into different
specialized agents so each agent still
has a simple system prompt. Another
thing you can do for agents that have
longer conversations is you can limit
kind of in a sliding window to the 10 or
20 most recent messages, for example,
that you actually include in the
context. And going back to the code,
I'll even show you what that looks like
here. Like right now when we call our
agent, we run it, we're passing in the
entire conversation history. But in
Python, if I wanted to include just the
last 10 messages, I could do something
like this. And so now maybe like, you
know, all previous messages aren't
really as relevant anymore. We just want
to include the most recent 10. That's
how we can do that. So that's another
really popular strategy. Also, tools
like N8N have that as an option baked
directly into their short-term memory
nodes. So very useful to know. And then
also when you start to have so much
information about a single user that you
don't want to include it in the
short-term memory, that's when you can
look at long-term memory. But also,
don't build it from scratch. Again,
don't over complicate it. There are
tools that you can use just like with
security to help us with long-term
memory, and mem is one of those. Mem is
a completely open-source long-term
memory agentic framework. And so I'll
show the GitHub in a second here, but
yeah, when you have so much information
about a user that you can't just include
it all in context, you need some way to
search through a longer term set of
memories and bring only the ones in that
are relevant to the current
conversation, which actually does use
rag under the hood, by the way. So
again, another example why it's such an
important capability. Um, but yeah,
basically you're able to pull core
memories from conversations and store it
to be searched later. That's what
Memzero offers us. And it's so easy to
include in our Python code to just like
guardrails AI. I'll show you an example
really quickly in their quick start. You
install it as a Python package and then
you basically have a function to search
for memories like performing rag to find
memories related to the latest message
and then you have a function to add
memories. And so it'll use a large
language model to extract the key
information to store to be retrieved
later. And so this definitely solves the
context problem because now you're able
to basically have infinite memory for an
agent, but you don't have to give it all
to the LLM at once. It just retrieves
things as needed. And of course, the
last thing I want to hit on for context
is what not to focus on when you're
first building your agent. Do not worry
about advanced memory compression
techniques. There's a lot of cool things
that Enthropic especially has been doing
research on, but like don't worry about
that. Don't worry about specialized sub
agents. These are both solutions to
handle the memory problem when it starts
to get really really technical. But
right now, just start simple and you can
always optimize things as you're
starting to expand your agent and go to
production and you hit some limits. But
right now, focusing on these things up
front is all you need to go the first
90% probably even beyond depending on
how simple your agents are. And context
was the last of the four core components
of agents. So, we've covered the core
four and security. Now, I want to talk a
bit about observability and deployment.
Getting our agent ready for production.
And I will say that security,
observability, and deployment definitely
go a lot more into the last 10% of
building an agent. But I want to touch
on them here because there are some ways
to design stuff up front very simply,
especially with observability. I want to
introduce you to Langfuse right now. And
I covered this on my channel already.
Link to a video right here on Langfuse
if you want to dive more into
observability. But we can set up the
ability to watch for the actions that
our agent is taking, view them in a
dashboard. We can do things like testing
different prompts for our agents. It is
a beautiful platform and it's actually
super easy to incorporate into our code.
And so I did this very sneakily already
when I built the agent with you, but I
have this function here called setup
observability. And all it does is it
initializes langfuse based on some
environment variables that I have set
here. And I cover all that in my YouTube
video on Langfuse if you're curious. But
you basically just connect to your
Langfuse instance. And then after you
set up the connection and instrument
your agent, your Pantic AI agent for
observability, that is all you have to
do. Literally no more code in here for
Langfuse. And it's going to watch for
all of our agent executions, even
getting a sense of the tool calls that
it's making under the hood. So take a
look at this. So I'm in the Langfuse
dashboard now where I can view that
execution that we had from our test
earlier where it used the add numbers
function and we have all of this very
rich data around the number of tokens
that it used the latency. We can view
the tools and also look at the different
parameters that we have like the tool
arguments like for the numbers to add.
We can view the system prompt that was
leveraged here based on that template we
have defined. We have all this
observability that also really helps for
monitoring our agents in production when
other users are leveraging the agent. So
we can't just like look at our chat and
see how the agent is performing. And
there's so many other things within
langu as well that I don't want to get
into right now like eval for your agent.
It is a totally open- source platform
just like me zero and guardrails AI. So
again focusing on open source a lot in
this video. There are other solutions
for this kind of observability like
Heliconee and Langmith for example, but
Langfuse is the one that I love using.
And I know I didn't cover it too much in
the code, but it really is as simple as
what I showed you. And so you can use
the repository that I have linked below
as your template to like start an agent
with observability baked right in if
you're interested. And then the very
last component that I want to at least
touch on right now is how you can
configure your agent upfront to work
well for deployment when you're ready to
take your agent into production. Now,
obviously that's going to be part of the
last 10%. Not something I'm going to
talk about a lot in this video, but the
one big golden nugget that I want to
give you here is you should always think
about how you can build your AI agent to
run as a Docker container. Docker is my
method for packaging up any application
especially AI agents that I want to
deploy to the cloud and also I will say
that AI coding assistants are very good
at setting up docker configuration like
your docker files and docker compose u
files. Yeah. So leverage those and then
you can add you know like a simple
streamllet application with Python or
build a react front end to create a chat
interface for your agent if it is a
conversationally driven agent or
otherwise what I like to do for more you
know like background agents that run on
a data set periodically I'll run it just
as a serverless function so it's kind of
like background agent run it as
serverless in a docker container
conversational agent you run it in a
docker container also with a front-end
application that's pretty much like the
two tracks I have for any agent that I
want to deploy. So yeah, just think like
Docker native. Have that in your mind
from the get-go when you're building
your agent. What you don't want to focus
on for observability and deployment and
everything production ready is
Kubernetes orchestration, extensive LM
evals or prompt AB testing. Like some of
the things we have in Langfuse that are
very powerful when you want to super
refine your agent tools and system
prompt and everything like don't even
worry about that yet. You can definitely
get there and like I said core part of
the last 10%. But right now also don't
even think about like the infrastructure
that much because unless you're running
local large language models, you don't
really need heavy infrastructure for
your agents at all. Like obviously it
depends on the amount of usage of your
agent. But for most use cases, just like
a couple of vCPUs and a few gigabytes of
RAM is all you need to run an AI agent
even if you have a front-end application
as well. very very lightweight as long
as you are calling a third party for the
large language model like open router or
you know anthropic or gemini whatever
that might be. So there you go that's
everything that I have for you today
helping you just keep it simple which
will not just help you build better
agents even when you have to scale
complexity but it'll also just help you
get over that hurdle of motivation
because I'm giving you permission to not
be perfect at first. you just start with
the foundations like I showed you and
then build on top and iterate as you
need. And so I hope that inspires you to
just go and build your next AI agent
right now because it can be super simple
to start. And so with that, if you
appreciate this video and you're looking
forward to more things on building AI
agents and using AI coding assistants,
I'd really appreciate a like and a
subscribe. And with that, I will see you
in the next